Hello and welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
All right so I hope you're enjoying a tutorial so far we're nearly done with the intention you soon
very soon get to the practical side of things we've just got a few little things that we need to cover
off.
All right so previously we talked about how we add neural networks into this whole equation of Q learning
and tequila into the next step and turn it into deep kill learning.
And today we're going to add a an extra important feature which you will be coding in the practical
side of things so headline and I decided that it's important for us to cover it often in the intuition
side of things so that you're more prepared for it when it comes in the coding side of things.
So as we discuss we've got the network there.
There's two parts that happen.
First of all it's the learning so the network actually learns with every new state and it slowly updates
its weights to get better and better and better at dealing with this environment.
And then there is the acting inside the state so after the key values have been counted in the state.
Then once you value selected.
So today we're still going to talk about the learning part we're going to come up with a interesting
feature that's going to.
Well we're not going to come up with this feature ourselves but we'll talk about a feature that is very
important for a deep Q learning and that feature is called Experience replay.
All right.
So here is our network.
So we've just copied it over here we've got that a loss that is calculated.
The bottom is back propagate through a network and let's have a look at an example of what happens to
understand the problem that we're dealing with a bit better.
So here is an example actually from this course this is a screenshot shot exactly from this course.
This is what you'll be programming.
This is a self-driving car that is driving through this thing along this road and it has to learn how
to navigate this road.
And so what it is as we discussed previously what is this.
In what is this state.
And of course the state is going to be x1 x2 alone will describe it bit in a lot more detail what the
state is it is going to be a couple of parameters which relate to the angle of the car and some relative
parameters what the sensors are reading and so on so there's going to be more parameters than that to
describe the state.
But nevertheless it's going to be a vector of values going to go through a neural network and then on
the output you're going to have some Q values again.
There'll be a different depending on the environment.
It can be a different number of actions possible actions.
But we're just going to for simplicity's sake leave it at for just for us two people to understand a
bit better what's going on here.
So in this case what is the question is so far what is this.
This inputs into this neural network or more specifically how often do we trigger this neural net.
How often does this neural network go through.
Well every time the car ends up in a new state so the car makes a move it ends up in a new state and
then everything go.
All that data all that information from about the state goes through the network key values are calculated
error is this error is calculated based on what we discussed in previous tutorials this error is back
propagated through a network which are updated.
Then the car selects which action wants to take makes that move ends up in a in a new state in the new
state.
Everything starts over again.
And so basically this happens every time the car is in a new state.
Well let's have a look at this example.
I specifically took this screenshot because it looks it's very well illustrates the problem that is
addressed through experience replay and expands replay is not just something that we use in this course
or in this specific problem it is something that you will see used throughout like on and on and over
and over again in artificial intelligence algorithms because it is so powerful and it's so important.
So look at this car this car in this problem or in this environment its goal is come from go from here
to here and back.
Its goal is to navigate its way here here without crossing these walls which are made of sand.
And so the car starts over here.
It went down and like its reward is based on you know how close it is to study.
So the car went from here it went down and kept going like this like this like this like this.
Along this wall along this wall.
And what is it going to do next is going to turn is going to keep going.
Well what we wanted to do is keep going here.
But let's think about it for a second.
Once it got to this wall every single time it moves forward it moves forward.
It moves forward it moves forward moves forward it moves forward it moves forward and so on it moves
forward.
So there might be light depending on the structure environment it could be like a hundred moves here
or 50 moves here.
It just keeps moving forward forward forward forward forward forward and nothing changes nothing really
changes yes it gets a way further away from this started closer to this target.
That's lovely.
But in terms of their surrounding environment not many things are changing it's still that same wall.
If you sitting in the car you've probably seen the situation when you're driving in the whatever you're
seeing is like the environment is so monotonous that you're just seeing kind of the same thing is just
passing by.
Because I imagine you're driving through a desert and you're just seeing the same thing it's the same
sign that's the same sound nothing is happening nothing is changing and so best but every single time
we're putting that state that new state into here.
Yes of course something might be changing for us as you're driving the car and your G.P.S. is showing
you're closer to your destination.
So one of these inputs the strategy but a lot of these other inputs the sensors for instance which are
on the car they're not changing and therefore as you're driving through in this day to put input the
inputs into your neural network here here here here here here here and here and here all the time the
inputs are pretty much the same.
And so if you keep inputting the same inputs the same values the same vector or very similar vectors
into your network because there is no variety the car will learn very well one thing you'll learn very
well how to drive along this wall which is on its right.
And so that's how the network will update and will get rewarded will slowly start getting rewarded for
driving so well it will be like OK so from here we'll be start learning Oh I'm doing so good I'm doing
him better I'm doing it better it will.
It will have this this false perception that it's actually doing very well even though it only learns
how to drive along this wall.
And so the neural network will become very adapted to driving along this wall and then all of a sudden
there's this curve and the car doesn't know what to do and it completely doesn't fit in with this neural
network.
And even if it does adjust somehow let's hypothetically say it passes a spa and then it ends up on this
wall.
Same thing is gonna happen is gonna drive from here here here.
Okay.
Now the neural network is restructuring itself to adapt to this wall and then bam this thing happens
and then even if somehow it gets past that it will drive past this thing and then same thing along these
lines.
So basically this is a very vivid example of the problem that we are what we have is that because the
way we're using the neural net updating it with every single state once we have lots of consecutive
steps they don't even have to be the same.
But there is in environments it's normal that consecutive states are somehow correlated or somehow interdependent
and we don't want that interdependency to bias our network.
We don't want the card to just learn how to drive along like a straight line or along a curved line
or like anything that you think you can think of in in life where an agent would be navigate environment
where we can think of correlated or interdependent states that come after another that can really mess
up your neural network.
If you're just going to let the agent learn from that and that's where experience replay comes in what
what happens and experience replay is these experiences.
So these states that it's in one two three however many 50 states here in a row they don't get put through
the network right away.
They're actually saved into memory of the agent.
And so for instance it saves all these and saves all these and some at some point once it reaches a
certain threshold we shall be able to code and Alan we'll show you how to do that once it reaches a
certain threshold then the agent decides for itself.
OK.
Sam to learn.
I have I have this batch of experiences that I have and now I'm going to learn from that batch and so
randomly selects a uniformly distributed and uniformly is key is important here because that's something
we'll we'll talk about on the next slide.
We'll book.
We'll mention that but it takes a uniformly distributed sample.
So basically all experiences are considered to be equal.
It takes a uniformly distributed sample from that batch of experiences that it has and then it goes
through them and it learns from them.
So it doesn't take all the extremes it just takes it uniformly distribute samples it might take a couple
from here a couple from here a couple from here and each experience is characterized by the state it
was in the action that it took the state it ended up in and the reward it it achieved through that action
in that specific state.
So four elements in each experience state one action state 2 and reward.
And so it takes all those experiences and then it passes them through the network and it learns and
that way it it breaks the pattern of that bias which comes from the sequential nature of the experience
if you were to put them through the network one after the other.
So that's the main focus of experience replay.
That's that's what the problem it addresses and another benefit of exchange replay is that sometimes
in an environment like this you might have very valuable rare experiences.
So for instance I don't know.
Let's say let's look at this corner right.
This is this is a right corner all right.
And a very sharp one.
How many is sharp.
So it'll be coming from here.
Assuming it's going to be hugging this corner.
So having you sharp right corner is do we have in this in this where we only have one right corner here
and one right corner here.
Right.
So when it's coming this way that's the right corner.
And then when it's going back it's a sharp right corner here.
So and this one's not sharp this one is sharp so there's only one opportunity in the whole environment
to learn from a sharp right corner.
And that's a very important experience because it might get really good at driving along straight lines
get really good at doing like soft corners like that like that but and then it will keep messing up
this sharp right corner simply because simply because it's own it doesn't have that much opportunity
to learn from it and so therefore it will learn everything else pretty quickly but it'll take a long
time to learn this right corner.
It's a very simplified example is a very simplified explanation but it illustrates the concept that
sometimes they're rare experiences which are which can be valuable.
And if you're just doing a simple neural network where you're putting in your values here and you know
they're going through and you know like even if we forget about that problem of the sequential nature
of experiences and how they can be interdependent or correlated and even forget about that for a second
what happens is once you put an experience in it goes through then it looks updated then you instantly
forget forgive.
Forget about that experience you move on to the next one.
That's just how the neural networks.
Then you move on to the next state the next state the next state the next experience next experience
their experience and so on.
So this right corner as soon as it goes through a network it's gone there and you don't have any memory
of that valuable experience.
Whereas we've experienced replay because you're putting these experiences into batches you can organize
your bash as a rolling window.
So for instance you could have like 100 batches so 100 experiences in your batch.
So when it's coming back from here it's as soon as it has this recorded this experience in its batch.
Then like at some point it's right runs.
It takes a uniform distribution from its batch of experiences and then there's a rolling window sort
forgets these experiences but then it keeps these experiences.
And then again it learns from once it's here it learns from this batch and then once it's here if it
gets all the way up to here but then it has a batch of experiences like that.
So therefore a node learns from these experiences and that way what you are getting is that this right
hand corner might come up several times in its learning process because it was in that batch when the
batch was like this around there then it was in the batch here in the batch here so it came up in several
batches because of a batch might be updated as a rolling window of experience.
So the older experiences get kicked out the newer experiences are added.
And then again older recipients get it.
So an experience it stays in the batch for quite some time and the car or agent can learn from that
experience several times.
So that's another advantage of experience replay.
And of course the final advantage is experience replay gives you an opportunity to learn from more experiences
than if you were just learning for one at a time because you have that batch and therefore and a rolling
window and therefore even if your environment is limited to experience your experience replay approach
can help you learn faster and instead of just redoing their version many many many times you can learn
faster because you don't have to redo it you have those experiences saved.
So those are the main advantages of expanded replay.
Let's recap on then we've got that we're breaking that pattern of independence and correlation of sequential
experiences.
We save rare experiences which might be important and therefore we can learn from them more often and
we can learn in environments we can learn foster environments which are experience which have a shortage
of experiences which don't have that many experiences that the agent goes through and still we can be
able to learn it.
So that is what experience replay is all about.
If you'd like to read a bit more than this there's an interesting article published by deep mind in
2016 is called prioritized experience replay and it talks about why why are we using a uniform distribution
to select our experiences from the experienced batch.
Why don't we find a better way to select our experiences and prioritize some of the experiences which
we feel that are important.
So it's quite an interesting thing.
So in this case you will be able to not only reinforce or not only reinforce your knowledge on experience
replay but you'll actually be able to move with the cutting edge of technology so this is 2016 and published
by deep minds.
It's a very recent very powerful paper so you'll be able to actually explore the limits or explore even
further this algorithm and take it to the next level.
So I'll leave it up to you to find out why and how we can change the uniform submission to a different
approach to expense replay from this paper if you'd like.
And I hope you enjoyed this material and now we know what experience replay is and we can confidently
use it in our practical circles and I look forward to see you next time.
Until then enjoy a.